federalist 54
the apportionment of members among the
states
from the new york packet tuesday
february 12 1788
hamilton or madison
to the people of the state of new york
the next view which i shall take of the
house of representatives relates to the
appointment of its members to the
several states which is to be determined
by the same rule with that of direct
taxes
it is not contended that the number of
people in each state ought not to be the
standard for regulating the proportion
of those who are to represent the people
of each state
the establishment of the same rule for
the appointment of taxes will probably
be as little contested though the rule
itself in this case is by no means
founded on the same principle
in the former case the rule is
understood to refer to the personal
rights of the people with which it has a
natural and universal connection
in the latter it has reference to the
proportion of wealth of which it is in
no case a precise measure and in
ordinary cases a very unfit one
but notwithstanding the imperfection of
the rule as applied to the relative
wealth and contributions of the states
it is evidently the least objectionable
among the practicable rules and had to
recently obtain the general sanction of
america not to have found a ready
preference with the convention
all this is admitted it will perhaps be
said but does it follow from an
admission of numbers for the measure of
representation or of slaves combined
with free citizens as a ratio of
taxation that slaves ought to be
included in the numerical rule of
representation
slaves are considered as property not as
persons they ought therefore to be
comprehended in estimates of taxation
which are founded on property and to be
excluded from representation which is
regulated by a census of persons
this is the objection as i understand it
stated in its full force
i shall be equally candid in stating the
reasoning which may be offered on the
opposite side we subscribe to the
doctrine might one of our southern
brethren observe that representation
relates more immediately to persons and
taxation more immediately to property
and we join in the application of this
distinction to the case of our slaves
but we must deny the fact that slaves
are considered merely as property and in
no respect whatever as persons
the true state of the case is that they
partake of both these qualities being
considered by our laws in some respects
as persons and in other respects as
property
in being compelled to labor not for
himself but for a master in being
vendable by one master to another master
and in being subject at all times to be
restrained in his liberty and chastised
in his body by the capricious will of
another the slave may appear to be
degraded from the human rank and classed
with those irrational animals which fall
under the legal denomination of property
in being protected on the other hand in
his life and in his limbs against the
violence of all others even the master
of his labor and his liberty and in
being punishable himself for all
violence committed against others the
slave is no less evidently regarded by
the law as a member of the society not
as a part of the irrational creation as
a moral person not as a mere article of
property
the federal constitution therefore
decides with great propriety on the case
of our slaves when it views them in the
mixed character of persons and of
property this is in fact their true
character it is the character bestowed
on them by the laws under which they
live and it will not be denied that
these are the proper criterion because
it is only under the pretext that the
laws have transformed the negroes into
subjects of property that a place has
disputed them in the computation of
numbers and it is admitted that if the
laws were to restore the rights which
have been taken away the negroes could
no longer be refused an equal share of
representation with the other
inhabitants
this question may be placed in another
light it is agreed on all sides that
numbers are the best scale of wealth and
taxation as they are the only proper
scale of representation
would the convention have been impartial
or consistent if they had rejected the
slaves from the list of inhabitants when
the shares of representation were to be
calculated and inserted them on the
lists when the tariffs of contributions
was to be adjusted could it be
reasonably expected that the southern
states would concur in a system which
considered their slaves in some degree
as men when burdens were to be imposed
but refused to consider them in the same
light when advantages were to be
conferred
might not some surprise also be
expressed that those who reproach the
southern states with the barbarous
policy of considering as property a part
of their human brethren should
themselves contend that the government
to which all the states are to be
parties ought to consider this
unfortunate race more completely in the
unnatural light of property than the
very laws of which they complain
it may be replied perhaps that slaves
are not included in the estimate of
representatives in any of the states
possessing them they neither vote
themselves nor increase the votes of
their masters upon what principle then
ought they to be taken into the federal
estimate of representation
in rejecting them altogether the
constitution would in this respect have
followed the very laws which have been
appealed to as the proper guide this
objection is repelled by a single
observation it is a fundamental
principle of the proposed constitution
that as the aggregate number of
representatives allotted to the several
states is to be determined by a federal
rule founded on the aggregate number of
inhabitants so the right of choosing
this allotted number in each state is to
be exercised by such part of the
inhabitants as the state itself may
designate
the qualifications on which the right of
suffrage depend are not perhaps the same
in any two states in some of the states
the difference is very material in every
state a certain proportion of
inhabitants are deprived of this right
by the constitution of the state who
will be included in the census by which
the federal constitution apportions the
representatives in this point of view
the southern states might retort the
complaint by insisting that the
principle laid down by the convention
required that no regard should be had to
the policy of particular states towards
their inhabitants and consequently that
the slaves as inhabitants should have
been admitted into the census according
to their full number in like manner with
other inhabitants who by the policy of
other states are not admitted to all the
rights of citizens
a rigorous adherence however to this
principle is waived by those who would
be gainers by it all that they ask is
that equal moderation be shown on the
other side
let the case of the slaves be considered
as it is in truth a peculiar one
let the compromising expedient of the
constitution be mutually adopted which
regards them as inhabitants but as
debased by servitude below the equal
level of free inhabitants which regards
the slave as divested of two-fifths of
the man
after all may not another ground be
taken on which this article of the
constitution will admit of a stillmore
ready defense
we have hitherto proceeded on the idea
that representation related to persons
only and not at all to property but is
this a just idea government is
instituted no less for protection of the
property than of the persons of
individuals the one as well as the other
therefore may be considered as
represented by those who are charged
with the government
upon this principle it is that in
several of the states and particularly
in the state of new york one branch of
the government is intended more
especially to be the guardian of
property and is accordingly elected by
that part of the society which is most
interested in this object of government
in the federal constitution this policy
does not prevail the rights of property
are committed into the same hands with
the personal rights
some attention ought therefore to be
paid to property in the choice of those
hands
for another reason the votes allowed in
the federal legislature to the people of
each state ought to bear some proportion
to the comparative wealth of the states
states have not like individuals in
influence over each other arising from
superior advantages of fortune
if the laws allow an opulent citizen but
a single vote in the choice of his
representative the respect and
consequence which he derives from his
fortunate situation very frequently
guide the votes of others to the objects
of his choice and through his
imperceptible channel the rights of
property are conveyed into the public
representation a state possesses no such
influence over other states it is not
probable that the richest state in the
confederacy will ever influence the
choice of a single representative in any
other state nor will the representatives
of the larger and richer states possess
any other advantage in the federal
legislature over the representatives of
other states than what may result from
their superior number alone
as far therefore as their superior
wealth and weight may justly entitle
them to any advantage it ought to be
secured to them by a superior share of
representation
the new constitution is in this respect
materially different from the existing
confederation as well as from that of
the united netherlands and other similar
confederacies
in each of the latter the efficacy of
the federal resolutions depends on the
subsequent and voluntary resolutions of
the states composing the union hence the
states though possessing an equal vote
in the public councils have an unequal
influence corresponding with the unequal
importance of those subsequent and
voluntary resolutions
under the proposed constitution the
federal acts will take effect without
the necessary intervention of the
individual states
they will depend merely on the majority
of votes in the federal legislature and
consequently each vote whether
proceeding from a larger or smaller
state or a state more or less wealthy or
powerful will have an equal weight and
efficacy
in the same manner as the votes
individually given in a state
legislature by the representatives of
unequal counties or other districts have
each precise equality of value and
effect or if there be any difference in
the case it proceeds from the difference
in the personal character of the
individual representative rather than
from any regard the extent of the
district from which he comes
such is the reasoning which an advocate
for the southern interests might employ
on this subject and although it may
appear to be a little strained in some
points yet on the whole i must confess
that it fully reconciles me to the scale
of representation which the convention
have established in one respect the
establishment of a common measure for
representation and taxation will have a
very salutary effect
as the accuracy of the census to be
obtained by the congress will
necessarily depend in a considerable
degree on the disposition if not on the
cooperation of the state it is of great
importance that the states should feel
as little bias as possible to swell or
to reduce the amount of their numbers
were their share of representation alone
to be governed by this rule they would
have an interest in exaggerating their
inhabitants or the rule to decide their
share of taxation alone a contrary
temptation would prevail
by extending the rule to both objects
the states will have opposite interests
which will control and balance each
other and produce the requisite
impartiality
publius